- [Instructor] We're going to jump into some more
of the advanced concepts in JDBC
by first of all working with stored procedures.
Now, if you open up the exercise files,
in the SQL scripts, I've modified the README,
and added a new value.
The README now has the steps
to import the stored procedure that I've created
as part of the stored_proc.sql file.
So let's jump into terminal.
And I've loaded this directory up.
I have my database running.
All right, so we we are going to execute psql -h
localhost -U postgres -d hplussport -f stored_proc.sql.
When it prompts for your password,
put in the password of password.
And now it's created the function,
and now it's available for us to use.
Go ahead and close all this down.
And we're going to go into our OrderDAO
that we did during our challenge exercise.
Now, semantically, we created a function
because it returns data.
But functions and stored procedures really are synonymous
in Postgres, so we're going to go ahead and move on.
Now, there are two ways to call this.
One is to create a callable statement,
which in my opinion is much more painful.
The simpler way is to leverage a prepared statement
because the output of our function is a table
and we set that up to be that way on purpose
because it's easier to work with.
So if you're dealing with someone
who's creating your prepared statements
and they're outputting data,
it's often easier to have them output a table
because then you can use simpler constructs in JDBC,
especially in something like Postgres.
So let's go ahead and do what we've done
so many times before.
And we will add a private static final String
called GET_FOR_CUST,
and we will set that equal to SELECT star
FROM get_orders_by_customer,
parenthesis, question mark.
Now, you notice I'm doing two things.
First of all, I'm doing star
and that's because I want the whole table back out.
I don't like to do that a lot of times
with raw SQL but when I'm calling a stored procedure
or a function, I have little issue doing a select star
because it allows me to get all of the data out
that I know I've already defined in my stored procedure.
So now let's go ahead and create a method to handle this.
So at the bottom of our class,
we will create a method
that returns a list of orders
called getOrdersForCustomer,
and we will pass it the customerId.
And we will create an Order list.
And now we are going to do our try.
So we'll create a PreparedStatement.
And we will pass it GET_FOR_CUST.
And now we need to put in our catch block.
Okay, so now we can actually go and execute our method.
Now, this time my iteration
is going to be a little bit different
because of the data I'm dealing with.
But we're going to start very much the same
that we did on the getById.
So we'll do our statement.
That's setLong.
Value of one and it'll be our customerId.
And now we will create a ResultSet
equal to statement.executeQuery.
Now I'm going to set my orderId equal to zero,
and I'm going to create an order handle
but set it equal to null.
Now I can iterate over my resultSet.
Now, the first thing that I'm going to do
is I'm going to create a localOrderId.
So this will be the tuple that comes back
from the resultSet.
So I'll set it equal to resultSet.getLong,
and this is the fourth value.
Now, I know it's the fourth
because I can pull up that stored procedure
and look at the order of my tables.
And on row six, which is the fourth return,
that's the order_id.
So we'll jump back into code here.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to say if orderId
does not equal localOrderId,
so this is how I'm going to know that I have a new order.
So now I'm going to process all the order details
and I'm going to start by setting my order
equal to a new Order.
And then I'm going to process the order details,
and then I'll do the line details as I've done before,
but this way I get a new order every time.
So let's go ahead and go through the rest of our steps here
but there's one other thing before we do that.
Immediately, I want to add this order to my parent array.
That way I know that I've got the handle
but up above, it's added to the array
so I don't have to deal with it after the fact
so that I don't have to worry about adding it to the array
right before I create a new instance of order
when my order ID changes.
So this is just a little bit of pointer manipulation
that I'm doing.
Now we're going to go ahead and populate the rest
of this object.
So now that I populated all of my order details,
I'm going to create a OrderLine array.
And I'm going to go ahead and set that on my order itself.
Again, I'm going to use a little bit of pointer manipulation
to make sure that I don't have to keep track
of a whole bunch of things,
and move them around right before I create new instances.
So now that we populated the order details,
now we can actually go and do the OrderLine details.
So every time we get to this point,
we know that we need a new OrderLine.
And now we'll populate all of the details
of that Orderline.
All right, so now that we've gone ahead
and populated our OrderLine details,
what we can do now
is do an order.getOrderLines.add and add our orderLine,
so we're using that as a live list,
which again is possible
because of the way pointers work in Java.
Now, at this point, all we need to do
is return our orders themselves.
So now let's jump back into our executor.
And we're going to modify this method just a little bit.
We'll delete those last two lines
and now what I want to do is create a list
of Order objects called orders.
Go ahead and import that list from java.util.
orderDAO.getOrdersForCustomer.
Now, we're going to pass in customer 789,
and there's a reason we're going to use that customer.
And that's because this customer actually
has multiple orders.
So we'll do an orders.forEach.
And we will simply do a System.out::println on that.
And now we can run our method.
And you'll see that this customer actually has
two order IDs.
1009 and 1064.
And if we scroll over,
you'll see that the creation dates are different,
the totals are different, the statuses are different.
And indeed, the order lines are different.
So we've populated through our system multiple orders
using a stored procedure in the database.
Now again, this was a simple case
and it was a relatively easy way to use a function,
and it's not always that easy
but if you can, and you can point this direction,
this is a super convenient way
if you have to use stored procedure to do so in JDBC.